# OTN Slicing and Network slicing topology weekly call (April 13, 2023)

## Participants

- [x] Aihua Guo
- [x] Italo Busi
- [x] Sergio Belotti
- [ ] Xufeng Liu
- [ ] Luis M. Contreras
- [ ] Reza Rouki

### Next calls

- April 20 at 4pm CET / 10am NA EST / 11pm CST
- April 27 at 4pm CET / 10am NA EST / 11pm CST

## Discussion

### IETF 116 feedback ([link](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/minutes-116-ccamp-202303290030/))
From CCAMP WG:
2 10:04 10 Title: Framework and Data Model for OTN Network Slicing
Draft:
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-ccamp-yang-otn-slicing/
Presenter: Aihua Guo
Daniele Ceccarelli: (for model dependency) Option 1 is preferred.
Bo Wu: Network Slice framework only talks SDP so far without
including node/link defined in this Network Slice Topology, more
discussion & clarification is needed.
Aihua Guo : Okay.

* The concern is about the justification of using topology for network slices. 

* There is a reference in the NS framework document which has been referenced by ns-topo. 

> Additionally, the IETF
> Network Slice service customer might ask for some level of control
> of, e.g., to customize the service paths in a network slice.

* For the requirements it is better for operators to voice on this option.

* Also it is worth checking whether this requirement is applicable to transport network slicing only or is generic.
- refer to the OIF document regarding the requirements for VTNS (?),  IETF L1VPN framework and ACTN VN type 2

TEAS WG:
* Offline discussion with Pavan : why not to use TE topology for ns-topo
* There are a few issues with the current ns-nbi model:
 - unnecessary (single-node) topology layer
 - Topology reference is per network slice; it should be per connectivity construct
 - topology instance should reference to ns-topo not te-topo (i.e. must network-type=network slice)

Side meeting feedback:
* One option is to remove the topology reference from the ns-nbi and move it to the ns-topo
* the ns-topo model will augment ns-nbi to support slice topology configuration (as an optional feature)

### TEAS Comments review by Med [link](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/teas/O9y1pQ6BOGqQqKztKHxn5o9nnl8/)

### IANA review feedback
~~~
Dear Authors,

Before the IETF meeting, we check working group agendas for documents with IANA-related issues. We have a note about the current version of this document:

https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-ccamp-yang-otn-slicing

It looks like this might be missing an XML registration for ietf-otn-slice-mpI.

If you have any questions, just let us know. If you'd like to talk in person, you can find us next to the RFC Editor's table from Monday through Thursday. You can also request another review at any time by contacting us at iana@iana.org.

Best regards,

Amanda Baber
IANA Operations Manager
~~~
